Triad decompiler version 0.4 Alpha Test.

Not intended to be used for copyright infringement or other illegal activities.

What is triad:
TRiad Is A Decompiler
Triad is a tiny, free and open source, libdisasm based x86 decompiler that will
take in ELF files as input and spit out pseudo-C.

Installation:
Triad requires Capstone to be installed first.
http://www.capstone-engine.org/

First, it will be necessary to build triad. "make triad" should suffice.
After its components are built, the triad binary will be placed in the build 
directory. To copy the binary into /usr/bin, simply use "sudo make install."

Usage: triad <flags> <file name> <(optional)start address>

Simply run the triad binary from the command line and specify an ELF to 
decompile as a parameter. By default, triad will try to find the main function 
of the given file and start decompiling from there.

Sometimes ELFs have all symbols stripped, so triad will be unable to find main.
In such a scenario, the user may simply specify a starting address as the second
command line parameter. But, an incorrect starting address will likely result in
incorrect decompilation or no decompilation.

Triad has the ability to follow function calls and automatically decompile
callees. This is especially helpful when dealing with stripped binaries or other
binaries in which relevant code isn't clearly distinguishable from data.

Flags:

	-f: Full decompilation. This is the default.

	-p: Partial decompilation. Recovered control flow is always going to be
	bad, so Triad has an option to only partially decompile code. This
	means Triad will identify variables and parameters, try to recover
	calling convention, and translate most instructions back into their C
	operator equivalents, but Triad will leave jumps and comparisons as is
	with the philosophy that the user knows best how to follow them.

	-d: Disassemble. Make no attempt to decompile code, simply print out a
	disassembly in AT&T syntax.

	-s: Disable call following, just decompile main/whatever code was at the
	specified address.

	-h: Print all constants in hexadecimal format.

Limitations PLEASE READ BEFORE SUBMITTING A BUG REPORT:
Triad really only works on x86 and x86_64 ELF executables. Other architectures
may be possible in the future, but there are currently no plans to add them.

The triad decompiler is still very much an alpha. The project is nowhere near
completion and as such is missing some critical features, contains numerous
bugs, has several odd quirks, and has a propensity for segfaulting.

Missing features include support for switch decompilation and full support for
strings and statically allocated arrays (dynamically allocated arrays will
actually probably work to one degree or another, but the syntax will be
most unusual e.g. *(char*)(eax + (12)) = 96 instead of array[12] = 'a').
Struct analysis will be a long ways a way as well, and unions may never work
properly.

The only supported binary format currently supported is the Executable and
Linkable Format (ELF), commonly used on UNIX like systems, such as LINUX.

Control flow decompilation should be mostly correct, but it may look funky.
Continues, and forward gotos inside of conditional statements might wind up as
if-else statements. This is actually semantically equivalent, just different
from original source.

Optimization and computed jumps will probably cause a program to be decompiled
completely incorrectly.

Triad was designed and tested for programs compiled using gcc.

It is important to understand that the generated source code will NEVER be
exactly the original source (unless the program was compiled with debug 
symbols, of course).

If triad segfaults on you, feel free to tell me. Include a stack trace and a
description of the conditions that triggered the crash if at all possible.
For obvious reasons, it is quite important that triad crash as little as
possible.

"Hacking"/Modding notes:
I will be honest, the code is a bit of a mess. It is a short mess,
probably less than 2 KLOC, but the amount of pointer arithmetic and number of
globals used is not for the faint of heart.

That said, feel free to "hack" in features! The license is just MIT, so do 
whatever. Feel free to contact me if you have any questions about how the code
works or think you have a cool feature that should be merged into the codebase.
I tried to document the source, but I'm sure certain lines will leave many 
programmers confused and/or horrified.

My email is just electrojustin@gmail.com
